# Baking Magazine Spread

This 4 page design was created as an assignment for an Integrating Writing and Design course. All image credits are given along the images in the design. Photos are from Unsplash and free to use without attribution (although it is provided in the design), while icons are from the Noun Project and have the required attributions in the actual design for free use. The following commentary on this design is pulled from the course's final portfolio gloss on the spread:

"To create implicit connection between the pages, I created a grid that divided the pages systematically. For each page with large amounts of text (pages 2-4), the text boxes were contained to a middle section, leaving white space or picture space. I was particularly pleased with how pages 3 and 4 came out. The pages look distinct, with one page having ample white space at the top and bottom and the other having one picture split up to create two bold borders (instead of whitespace). Pages 3 and 4 almost act as inverses to each other; however, their connection is clear because of the precise alignment of everything. The pictures I chose also help to create coherence in their similarity of color palettes, centering around the warm tans and browns and cool blues and grays. I further tied the palette as a connector in by incorporating it into the text, with my accent color of copy text being a nice neutral brown pulled directly from one of the pictures. While on the topic of text, I utilized one consistent typeface pairing, as well as paragraph styles to tie the pages together. This helped small touches, like the comments written over pictures, feel more intentional. These choices also create a comforting repetition for the audience in terms of what to expect from a page’s structure (black, handwritten-looking font for headers, a brown, sans serif lead, and a thin, black sans serif for the copy text). Since I imagined the audience for this design as people who would be flipping through this magazine in the waiting room of some office, or home bakers looking for simple instructions, it was important that the layout was intuitive, with graphics that were aesthetically pleasing, rather than being incredibly complex and information dense.

In revision, I drafted out the copy text to replace the placeholder text I had initially. I kept the instructions vague, using a Cooks’ Illustrated recipe as a reference, but not directly typing it out, in an attempt to avoid plagiarism. Writing out the body text was an exercise in another type of consistency across the pages: consistency of voice. I tried to create a humorous, friendly tone that I had in the original draft’s image comments, to match my idea of the magazine’s overall informative but playful brand. I wanted to make the technical aspects of baking, that can be intimidating to people who do not bake often, feel approachable. Through the sprinkling of italicized side comments in parentheses throughout the copy text, I added levity to the technicalities on every page.

Overall, through repetition of design elements and voice, this design is a set of spreads where no two pages are exactly alike, yet they feel like a package."
